(Man) So in this lecture, you're gonna learn how to
chain multiple middleware functions for the same route.
So up until this point, whenever we wanted to define
a middleware, we only ever passed one middleware function.
So for example here, for handling this post request,
well we only passed in this middleware function
which is our createTour handler.
Okay? And so that's the only function that is gonna
be called whenever we get a post request.
Right? But lets now say that we want to actually
run multiple middleware functions.
Now you might ask "Why would we want to do that?".
Well we might, for example, run a middleware before
createTour here to actually check the data that is
coming in the body.
Right? So a bit similar to what we had before.
So we did this check ID middleware before in order to
check if the ID is actually valid and doing so outside
of the actual route handlers so that they are
only concerned with getting, updating, or deleting
a tour.
Right? And so here, in this specific example with post, we
might want to do the same thing.
So as I said, we might want to check if request.buddy
actually contains the data that we want for the tour.
Okay? And so lets do that.
And actually, I want you to first do it on your own.
So this is kind of a challenge that I want you to complete
in order to use the concepts that we've talked about
so many times at this point and create your own
middleware function.
So let me just write it here as a comment.
So I want you to create
a checkBody middleware function
and in there I want you to check
if the body contains the name property for the tour name
and the price property.
All right? And if not, I want you to send back a
four-hundred status code.
If not, send back four-hundred, which stands for
bad request.
So basically, an invalid request from the client, which is
in this case, trying to create a new tour without a name
and without a price property.
Okay! And that's actually it.
And (laughs) actually not.
So I also want you to add it to the post handler stack.
Basically. Okay?
So I want you to add it in here.
And I will actually tell you how to do that
because we didn't do it at this point.
So its very easy. Lets say our function is called middleware
and so what you have to do is to simply add that function
here before the createTour handler that will
ultimately create the tour. Okay?
So this way when we have a post request for this route,
it will then run this middleware first and only then
the createTour.
Okay? So that's how we chain two different middlewares.
But now I want you to go ahead and uh create this middleware
actually called checkBody.
So pause the video now and please try to do it on your own.
Okay! So I hope you were successful doing that and then you
tested it and that everything works.
So now let me go ahead and implement it in my way.
So we have this error here but don't worry about it.
Its because of this middleware that's not defined.
And so let me do it here right after the checkID middleware.
So exports.checkBody.
We have to request response and next.
And so its actually quite simple.
So if there is no request.body.name,
and I think that's the name but lets quickly go
ahead and check that.
So it is here is tour simple.
Yeah, and indeed its called 'name'
and the other one is 'price'.
So if there is no request body name or
no request body.price
well, in this case, we will, just as before, return from
this function and send back a response.
So the status here is remember: four-hundred add then
some 'json' where the status is fail.
So that's always when we have a four-hundred code.
Add then the message
"Missing name
or price".
Okay? So price and name need to be there at the same time.
So if either the price is not there or the name is not there
then we already send this error message.
Okay? But if everything is correct, well then we want
to move on to the next middleware.
And so that's what we say here.
And then next middleware will of course be createTour.
So this one.
So, lets go ahead and then add it here.
So tourController.checkBody.
All right so now the error is gone and we should be able
to test it now. So lets close the ones we're not interested
in and create a new tour.
So right now we have our body with the name, duration, and
difficulty but there is no price.
So we should now get our error. Right?
So lets test that. Send. And indeed, we have 'Missing name
or price' with our four-hundred bad request.
Okay? And so lets analyze what happened here again.
So our request hit this route here and it was a post
request. And so, it then run this middleware function
and from this function, we then send out this uh response
saying that, uh, well the name or the price is missing.
Okay? But if now add the price...
...so it doesn't really matter what price,
send it, well then everything works just fine
and we get a 201 created.
So what happened this time? Well, it checked for the body
and this condition was not true and so it called the next
middleware in the stack which is createTour.
So it created a tour and sent back the result
and like this, finished the request-response cycle.
Right? So I hope that was a, uh, nice small challenge and
we will be using this kind of logic here all the time
where we chain multiple kind of handlers here for the
same route. So for example here we could check if a
certain user is logged in or if he has the privileges, so
the access rights, to even write a new tour.
Or really all kinds of stuff that we want to happen
before the tour is actually created.
Okay? And once again we do that because we want to take
all the logic that is not really concerned with creating the
new resource outside of that handler. So that that handler
is only concerned really with the work
that is supposed to do.